PicoLoader ODE Homebrew Loader

What is it?
Its a Homebrew loader that runs on the RP2040 Pi Pico flash interfacing with the Gamecube Disc Interface via a flex interposer to load a dol/iso file on boot.
Initial ISO/Dols used are Gekkoboot and Swiss, Gekkoboot allows for booting a dol file from devices connected to gamecube for example an SDGecko Adapter in SLOT A with a file named IPL.dol which can be Swiss.dol renamed to IPL.dol

The goal is to boot into homebrew first from there adapters such as SD2SP2, SDGecko, IDE-EXI etc are used as normal.

Its not a traditional ODE with an SD card connected to it that can be accessed, its more of an alternative to Picoboot where the payload iso/dol resides on the pico flash and is loaded on gamecube boot though without soldering required on your cube.

The interposer flex was made in the same style as the one used by the amazing TeamOffBroadway for thier FlippyDrive as they were the first to come up with such a wonderful solution not requiring soldering, thanks goes out to them for making the FlippyDrive and this amazing interace option on the DVD Connector.



Initial Setup...
There is a release with the PicoLoader FW .uf2 file tagged in releases, this file is the the main firmware that runs the PicoLoader payloads after installing PicoLoader connecting it to your computer while holding the "Boot" Button you'd drag and drop this .uf2 fw file onto the rp2040 mounted virtual USB drive in your computer to flash the PicoLoader.
Afterwards you can use the ISO/DOL > UF2 Payload Converter webpage provided here to convert your dol/custom homebrew iso to make a flashable .uf2 file with your homebrew of choice. We've used Swiss_rXXXX.dol for instance as our payload of choice to boot directly into swiss right after the boot animation plays. The payload process is exactly the same a PicoLoader FW .uf2 flashing process, Plug PicoLoader usb cable into computer while holding "Boot" and drag drop the converted .uf2 dol file you made using the webpage onto the RP2040 to flash the homebrew payload you just made whether its swiss/gbi/gekkoboot/etc.
Just so its not confused you must flash PicoLoader FW .uf2 file from releases first, followed but your converted .dol payload file you made using the Webpage converter.

If you're going to convert a homebrew iso it needs to be an El-Torito ISO similar to how swiss makes its ISOs using mkisofs with the .hdr files generated by cubeboot-tools, the GCLoader Swiss boot.iso for instance is made with a region free apploader that patches the console IPL and will work for all consoles to load swiss when converted on the webpage to .uf2 but the boot animation will be cut short, using the region specific Swiss_ntsc/pal/j.iso will have the animation but won't be region free for the initial first boot. Using just the swiss.dol file converted on the ISO/DOL > UF2 Converter webpage will use the internal PicoLoader firmware apploader and create a region free payload that will boot on any console along with the Boot animation.